# Forecasting-Weather-condition-using-different-ML-algorithm
Different ML models are compared for forecasting weather condition on Delhi dataset
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the conditions of the atmosphere for a given location and time. Weather forecasts are made by collecting quantitative data about the atmosphere at a given place and using meteorology to project how the weather conditions will be. Weather forecasting now relies on computer-based models that take many atmospheric factors into account. Human input is required to pick the best possible forecast model (machine learning model ), which involves pattern recognition using the model, knowledge of model performance, and knowledge of model biases.This is the main aim of our project is to compare various machine learning models and try to find which model gives the best performance for weather forecasting. This blog contains the data collection, preprocessing of data, the classification models, time series analysis-forecasting and the neural network implemented.The inference is drawn from the implementation of different models and the best suited model is suggested for prediction tasks on real world time series data.
IMPORTANCE
There is a vast variety of end uses to weather forecasts. Weather warnings are important forecasts because they are used to protect life and property.Forecasts based on temperature and precipitation are important to agriculture, and therefore to traders within commodity markets. Weather forecasts are used by utility companies to estimate demand over the coming days. On an everyday basis, many use weather forecasts to determine what to wear on a given day. Since outdoor activities are severely curtailed by heavy rain, snow and wind chill, forecasts can be used to plan activities around these events, and to plan ahead and survive them.Not only weather forecasting is helpful in planning daily activities , it is also useful for marketing and advertising. It is also useful in the aviation sector.The aviation industry is especially sensitive to the weather,accurate weather forecasting is essential.Weather forecasts can also be helpful for online businesses and companies.Companies can use weather forecasts to plan their deliveries and also tell their customers if there will be any additional delay in delivering the products or because of bad weather conditions the customers will have to pay an additional amount.Therefore we can see that weather forecasts has a huge impact ; ranging from our personal lives to economies of countries and companies.
